Fluffy EOL; Docs: remove fluffy outside of enterprise section (#9229)
treeverse/lakeFS: docs/src/security/sso.md

If you're using an authentication provider that is not listed please [contact us](https://lakefs.io/contact-us/) for further assistance.

=== "Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) (using SAML)"
    !!! note
        AD FS integration uses certificates to sign & encrypt requests going out from lakeFS and decrypt incoming requests from AD FS server.
    

>     In order for lakeFS Enterprise to work with AD FS, the following configuration must be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To enable working with AD FS, the following configuration must be set:
```

>     1. Replace certificate paths (`sp_x509_key_path` and `sp_x509_cert_path`) with your actual certificate files
>     2. Replace `https://lakefs.company.com` with your actual lakeFS server URL
>     3. Replace `idp_metadata_url` with your AD FS metadata URL
>     4. Update `external_user_id_claim_name` to match your AD FS claim configuration
>     5. Set appropriate `default_initial_groups` for your users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Replace certificate paths (`sp_x509_key_path` and `sp_x509_cert_path`) with your actual certificate files
    1. Replace `https://lakefs.company.com` with your actual lakeFS server URL
    1. Replace `idp_metadata_url` with your AD FS metadata URL
    1. Update `external_user_id_claim_name` to match your AD FS claim configuration
    1. Set appropriate `default_initial_groups` for your users
```

      cookie_auth_verification:
        auth_source: saml
        friendly_name_claim_name: displayName
        default_initial_groups: ["Admins"]
        external_user_id_claim_name: http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/name
        validate_id_token_claims:
          department: r_n_d
      providers:
        saml:
          sp_root_url: https://lakefs.company.com
          sp_x509_key_path: dummy_saml_rsa.key
          sp_x509_cert_path: dummy_saml_rsa.cert
          sp_sign_request: true
          sp_signature_method: "http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmldsig-more#rsa-sha256"
          idp_metadata_url: "https://adfs-auth.company.com/federationmetadata/2007-06/federationmetadata.xml"
          post_login_redirect_url: /
      encrypt:
        secret_key: "your-secret-key"
      ui_config:
        login_url: https://lakefs.company.com/sso/login-saml
        logout_url: /sso/logout-saml
        login_cookie_names:
          - internal_auth_session
          - saml_auth_session
        rbac: internal
    blockstore:
      type: local
    features:
      local_rbac: true
    installation:
      fixed_id: "your-installation-id"
    ```
  
=== "OpenID Connect"

>     In order for lakeFS Enterprise to work with OIDC, the following configuration must be set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To enable working with OIDC, the following configuration must be set:
```

>     1. Replace `friendly_name_claim_name` with the right claim name from your OIDC provider
>     2. Replace `default_initial_groups` with desired groups (See [pre-configured][rbac-preconfigured] groups for enterprise)
>     3. Replace `logout_redirect_url` with your full OIDC logout URL (e.g `https://oidc-provider-url.com/v2/logout`)
>     4. Replace `providers.oidc.url` with your OIDC provider URL (e.g `https://oidc-provider-url.com/`)
>     5. Replace `providers.oidc.client_id` and `providers.oidc.client_secret` with the client ID & secret for OIDC
>     6. Replace `logout_client_id_query_parameter` with the query parameter that represents the client_id required by your OIDC provider
>     7. Replace `http://localhost:8000` with your actual lakeFS server URL
>     8. Update `logout_endpoint_query_parameters` with parameters required by your OIDC provider for logout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Replace `friendly_name_claim_name` with the right claim name from your OIDC provider
    1. Replace `default_initial_groups` with desired groups (See [pre-configured][rbac-preconfigured] groups for enterprise)
    1. Replace `logout_redirect_url` with your full OIDC logout URL (e.g, `https://oidc-provider-url.com/v2/logout`)
    1. Replace `providers.oidc.url` with your OIDC provider URL (e.g, `https://oidc-provider-url.com/`)
    1. Replace `providers.oidc.client_id` and `providers.oidc.client_secret` with the client ID & secret for OIDC
    1. Replace `logout_client_id_query_parameter` with the query parameter that represents the client_id required by your OIDC provider
    1. Replace `http://localhost:8000` with your actual lakeFS server URL
    1. Update `logout_endpoint_query_parameters` with parameters required by your OIDC provider for logout
```

        secret_key: shared-secrey-key
      ui_config:
        login_url: https://lakefs.company.com/oidc/login
        logout_url: https://lakefs.company.com/oidc/logout
        login_cookie_names:
          - internal_auth_session
          - oidc_auth_session
        rbac: internal
      oidc:
        friendly_name_claim_name: "nickname"
        default_initial_groups: ["Admins"]
      providers:
        oidc:
          post_login_redirect_url: https://lakefs.company.com/
          url: https://oidc-provider-url.com/
          client_id: <your-client-id>
          client_secret: <your-client-secret>
          callback_base_url: https://lakefs.company.com
          logout_client_id_query_parameter: client_id
          logout_endpoint_query_parameters:
            - returnTo
            - https://lakefs.company.com/oidc/login
    ```

=== "LDAP"

    lakeFS Enterprise provides LDAP authentication by querying the LDAP server for user information and authenticating users based on the provided credentials.

    **Important:** An administrative bind user must be configured. It should have search permissions for the LDAP server that will be used to query for user information.

>     **Configuration Requirements:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     To enable working with LDAP, the following configuration must be set:
```

>     1. Replace `providers.ldap.server_endpoint` with your LDAP server endpoint (e.g `ldaps://ldap.company.com:636`)
>     2. Replace `providers.ldap.bind_dn` with the LDAP bind user that has permissions to query your LDAP server
>     3. Replace `providers.ldap.bind_password` with the bind user's password
>     4. Replace `providers.ldap.user_base_dn` with the user base DN to search users in
>     5. Update other LDAP settings as needed for your environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Replace `providers.ldap.server_endpoint` with your LDAP server endpoint (e.g, `ldaps://ldap.company.com:636`)
    1. Replace `providers.ldap.bind_dn` with the LDAP bind user that has permissions to query your LDAP server
    1. Replace `providers.ldap.bind_password` with the bind user's password
    1. Replace `providers.ldap.user_base_dn` with the user base DN to search users in
    1. Update other LDAP settings as needed for your environment
```

    We can search the user using [ldapsearch](https://docs.ldap.com/ldap-sdk/docs/tool-usages/ldapsearch.html) CLI tool. 

    Search ALL users in the base DN (no filters):

    !!! note
        `-b` is the `user_base_dn`, `-D` is `bind_dn` and `-w` is `bind_password` from the lakeFS configuration.

    ```sh
    ldapsearch -H ldaps://ldap.company.com:636 -x -b "ou=Users,o=org-id,dc=company,dc=com" -D "uid=bind-user-name,ou=Users,o=org-id,dc=company,dc=com" -w 'bind_user_pwd'
    ```

    If the user is found, we should now use filters for the specific user the same way lakeFS does it and expect to see the user. 

    For example, to reproduce the same search as lakeFS does:
    - user `dev-user` set from `uid` attribute in LDAP 
    - Configuration values: `user_filter: (objectClass=inetOrgPerson)` and `username_attribute: uid`

    ```sh
    ldapsearch -H ldaps://ldap.company.com:636 -x -b "ou=Users,o=org-id,dc=company,dc=com" -D "uid=bind-user-name,ou=Users,o=org-id,dc=company,dc=com" -w 'bind_user_pwd' "(&(uid=dev-user)(objectClass=inetOrgPerson))"
    ```

### Helm

> In order to use lakeFS Enterprise, we provided out of the box setup, see [lakeFS Helm chart configuration](https://github.com/treeverse/charts).

Reviewer: Is this section (Helm) still relevant. I mean we can reference the chart examples for different configuration like the above and specify from which version this is true in a note above or in the migration.
But is there anything else in the Helm that we need to document?

Author: I'm not sure, @Isan-Rivkin WDYT?

Notes:

* Check the [examples on GitHub](https://github.com/treeverse/charts/tree/master/examples/lakefs/enterprise) we provide for each authentication method (oidc/adfs/ldap + rbac).
* The examples are provisioned with a Postgres pod for quick-start, make sure to replace that to a stable database once ready.

> <!-- # TODO:  set correct version -->

Reviewer: Add the TODO also to the PR description so it will not be forgotten.

Author: I'll concentrate all of the TODOs (should there be) in the main issue
